Hello and welcome in this lecture, we're going to create a gun again to learn how we're going to be
architecting guns for this game so that they are swappable so we can have different properties on different
types of guns.
And that's generally how the architectures work in shooters first person or third.
Let's dive in and see how it's done.
OK, so we haven't checked in on our project plan in a little while where we got to the play movement.
It's done.
The animation for now is done and the shooting, that is the next thing for us to focus on.
Now, it's a little confusing here because our MASH already appears to have a gun.
But actually, we don't want to use this gun.
We want to use it in a different way.
Recent being in a shooter type of game, you often want to be able to switch between weapons or at least
be able to have different characters, have different weapons.
And the easiest way to do that is to architect the gun as a separate thing to the character so that
you can swap them out so that it can be responsible for how it shoots.
If it's a rocket launcher or a shotgun or a rifle, they're going to do things in different ways.
Now, you might say, okay, well, let's create a gun component and we can stick that gun components
underneath our mesh.
That would work, except that then we lose the modularity that allows us to add multiple components
to the gun.
So what we really want to do is go down the route of having an actor for the gun that is child ID to
the shooter character.
Now, this is something we haven't come across before, but it works like this.
You can have a shooter character and a gun as its child.
And the shooter character can have multiple components which a child to each other.
So you got the capsule.
We've got the mesh as a child of the capsule at the moment, and the components of the gun can be child
ID to that.
So the mesh gets child ID to the mesh of the character.
And if it's got any other components, such as maybe a particle effect at the muzzle of the gun, that
might be child ID to the mesh.
So you can see that these hierarchy's are kind of independent, that you've got these seen components,
the ones that have transformed over on the right.
And they can be in a certain hierarchy.
And then the actor hierarchy actually follows the hierarchy of the scene components.
The actors don't have a hierarchy of their own.
This is the bit that takes a little bit of time to get your head around.
It was a a ha moment when it clicked for me.
Is it in actual fact, there is no hierarchy of actors.
There's only a hierarchy of scene components.
There are actors that own the scene components.
And so they end up having a hierarchy because they're seen components are related to each other, but
they don't actually have a relationship among themselves.
So with that sad to set the context, the first thing we want to go and do is actually create ourselves
a C++ gun actor.
And in this case, it's not going to be a porn or character or anything like that.
It's just gonna be a straightforward actor because we don't need any behavior to need to possess it.
We don't need to do anything.
It's just as simple, simple actor.
So let's go ahead and do that.
In fact, little challenge for you.
Go ahead and create that C++ act as something you should be able to do.
Little mini challenge, attempt it.
Okay.
And back in, I'm gonna to do its new C++ class and we don't need to have C actor.
That's all we want to choose.
And we're going to go ahead and call this one gun.
Simple as let's create that class.
Okay.
And once that's done, it's going to pop up in your code editor.
And we don't need to do anything with it just yet because the first thing I want to do is create a blueprint
subclass.
So.
Right, click on your class in the content browser and instead of calling it Mike A.N. and wipe automatic
defaults that BP underscore gun, I'm going to put it the roots of concept.
For now, we can do a bit of reorganizing once you've got more classes.
As I've said before, we'll create the blueprint class.
As you can see, it's completely empty.
It's its default scene roots.
We're gonna want to fix that up.
All he wants to do is actually add a component in C++ because this is a C++ course.
Let's practice the muscle of adding components in C++.
It also means that we're going to have access to those components from within our C++ code to manipulate
and write our code there.
Now, the setup we're going to want is to have a seen root component, which is just going to be seen
components and then a MASH.
It's a child of that.
Why do we want that?
Because we want to be able to change the position of the MASH relative to the roots of the gun so that
we can basically place the handle in different locations for different measures.
So if we have different guns, we can make sure they will have the handle in the same place so that
when we attach it to the characters hand, it's going to appear with the handle in the character's hand.
Okay.
So how we gonna do that?
We're going to go over to our Visual Studio code and I'm going to create a private section down here
where we're going to store the U.
Properties for the different components that we're going to come up with.
So I'm going to create a U.
Property visible anywhere that we want our components to be visible anywhere, because their point is
we don't want to be able to edit the pointers, but we do want to be able to see the properties of those
pointers and be able to.
Those and that then becomes the purview of the class that we're pointing to that then decides what gets
shown, what is editable.
So all you want to say here is that it's not the plane to these editable.
So that's why go for visible anyway.
A little bit revision.
Now, we want this to be a you because it's a component.
Then it's a scene components that we're wanting.
If I can type it correctly, I think opponents and it's appointed to it.
And this is going to be our route components.
Like, so and then we're going to want a new property.
Again, visible anywhere for Meche.
The class for the MASH is going to be a U.
Static MASH component, because this isn't a skeletal mesh.
It's rigid.
It doesn't have any skeleton, any bones.
So when that's be a pointer.
And this is just gonna cool the mesh like so.
Fact, I think I need to be a little bit careful here, because I think root component already exists
in the parent class act.
So I'm just going to call this route instead.
And then we've already got a constructor over in the C++.
We're just going to need to include the appropriate pedophiles here.
Now, they'll trick when you're in Visual Studio CODIS to find out where pedophile might be.
Use control P and you're going to search for in this case, we wants to know the static mesh.
So static mesh components.
And we can see that the static mesh components dot h.
If I go ahead and open it up and hover over the tab, you can see that it is under this long path.
But the bit that's interesting is that it's under classes which then we can look up from.
That is going to be components, static mesh components.
So I can close that tab down and just above include, in fact, below that include for a gun.
We're going to do a hash include for the components and then the static mesh components.
Now, actually, I just remembered that the measures that we've got for some reason aren't actually
static measures.
I believe they might be Scottsville measures.
You can find this out by going into the asset packs, shoot a game weapons and having a look at these
measures.
And sure enough, if you hover over them, you can see that they are skeletal measures.
Don't ask me why.
For some reason, that's what they are.
So we're going to want to change the type of skeletal mesh in the head of file.
So instead they use static mesh.
It's gonna be you scale a little mesh instead.
And same for the include.
It's going to be the skeletal.
MASH component dot h.
That we want to remember, there's no you in the head of files.
And I believe the same components already include the head by default.
So it's time for a challenge to add a mesh component of your own.
We're going to create a root scene components.
Set it to the roots and set it to the root for the class.
And create a mesh components and set up the attachment between the two.
So the mesh component is a child of that root scene components.
Pause video and have a go.
Kay, welcome back.
So we're going to go over and set, first of all, our roots.
It's going to be a create default sub object of type you see in components.
And then we are going to give it a name, which is going to be with the text macro.
We're going to call it the root and finish up with a semicolon.
Then we're going to set it as the root.
So set roots components will set it as the root component for the actor.
So set root as the root components.
Good stuff.
Then we're going to want to create our mesh so mesh equals create default sub object.
And it's the EU, a skeletal mesh component that we want as the class.
And then the text macro for just gonna call it mesh and add a semicolon on the end there.
Then we want to set up attachment.
So it's going to be mesh arrow set up.
Setup attachment.
And we're going to want to attach to the roots.
Like, so cool stuff.
So we can go ahead and save that and hopefully compile and build.
And we'll go over in it, too.
Unreal.
And have a look at our child class.
And sure enough, in here, we've got ourselves the roots.
We've got the sub mesh.
Also got this default scene route, which is hanging around, I think.
Let's restart the editor and see if that just goes away.
Sometimes when adding components, things can linger around like that and get cached.
And sure enough, if we open up the BP gun blueprints again, you can see that we just got those two
components.
We've added the roots and the mesh.
And we probably want to go ahead and change out the mesh for one of the skeletal measures from the asset
packs, from the shooter game.
We've got the rifle.
We've got a launch and choose this one to be the rifle.
So actually calling it a BP gun is a little bit disingenuous.
This should probably be the BP rifle.
So let's go ahead and rename that, go over to the content browser and rename it to BP Reifel or BP
Gun.
Underscore Reifel now Iglulik, BP Reifel directly Nager.
And that has given us a gun.
Now, obviously, now this means that we can have all sorts of properties against this actor, such
as the strength of the weapon, its range and so on and so forth, by creating new properties in C++.
And that is the strength of having this architecture, is that the guns can then be a little bit different.
We can have different shooting mechanics for rifles versus snipers.
Verse is RPG is things like that.
So that's great.
And we can also have different stats so we can have a strong rifle and a weak rifle depending on different
blueprint subclasses.
Cool stuff.
Now, in the next lecture, we're going to look at how we're going to actually spawn this gun as a child
of our current character.
I'll see that.